AppleCare+ for iPhone
How Consumer Rights Affect this Plan
FOR CONSUMERS IN JURISDICTIONS WHO HAVE THE BENEFIT OF CONSUMER PROTECTION LAWS OR
REGULATIONS, THE BENEFITS CONFERRED BY THE ABOVE MENTIONED PLAN ARE IN ADDITION TO ALL
RIGHTS AND REMEDIES PROVIDED UNDER SUCH LAWS AND REGULATIONS. NOTHING IN THIS PLAN
SHALL PREJUDICE CONSUMER RIGHTS GRANTED BY APPLICABLE MANDATORY LAWS, INCLUDING
CONSUMER’S RIGHT TO THE REMEDIES UNDER STATUTORY WARRANTY LAW AND TO SEEK DAMAGES IN
THE EVENT OF TOTAL OR PARTIAL NON-PERFORMANCE OR INADEQUATE PERFORMANCE BY APPLE OF
ANY OF ITS CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS.
1. The Plan. This service contract governs the hardware service and technical support provided to you
by Apple under the above-mentioned plan (the “Plan”) for an iPhone and the accessories contained in its
original packaging (“Covered iPhone”) listed on your proof of coverage document (“Plan Confirmation”).
2. When Coverage Begins and Ends.
Coverage begins when you purchase the Plan. Coverage ends twenty-four (24) months from the date of
retail purchase of your original iPhone (“Plan Term”). Your Plan Confirmation will be provided to you at
or about the time of purchase or sent to you automatically thereafter. The terms of this Plan, the original
sales receipt for your Plan and the Plan Confirmation are each part of your service contract. To obtain a
copy of your Plan Confirmation, follow the instructions and enter your iPhone's serial number at
www.apple.com/support/applecare/view. You can find the price of the Plan on the original sales receipt.
The hardware service, accidental damage from handling coverage and technical support coverage which
the Plan provides is additional to the coverage which the manufacturer’s hardware warranty and
complimentary technical support provide.
3. What is Covered?
3.1 Hardware Service
If during the Plan Term, you submit a valid claim by notifying Apple that (i) a defect in materials and
workmanship has arisen in the Covered iPhone or, (ii) the capacity of the Covered iPhone’s battery to
hold an electrical charge has depleted fifty (50%) percent or more from its original specifications, Apple
will either (a) repair the defect at no charge, using new or refurbished parts that are equivalent to new in
performance and reliability, or (b) exchange the Covered iPhone with a replacement product that is new
or equivalent to new in performance and reliability, and is at least functionally equivalent to the original
product. If Apple exchanges the Covered iPhone, the original product becomes Apple’s property and
the replacement product is your property, with coverage for the remaining period of the Plan.
3.2 Accidental Damage from Handling
If during the Plan Term you submit a valid claim notifying Apple that the Covered iPhone has failed due
to accidental damage from handling (“ADH”), Apple will subject to the service fee described below either
(i) repair the defect using new or refurbished parts that are equivalent to new in performance and
reliability, or (ii) exchange the Covered iPhone with a replacement product that is new or equivalent to
new in performance and reliability, and is at least functionally equivalent to the original product (both
individually known as a “Service Event”). ADH coverage will expire and all of Apple’s obligations to
you under this section 3.2 will be fulfilled in its entirety before the end of the Plan Term when
Apple, as a result of ADH claims, has provided to you two (2) Service Events. ADH coverage only
applies to an operational or mechanical failure caused by an accident from handling that is the result of
an unexpected and unintentional external event (e.g., drops and liquid contact) that arises from your
normal daily usage of the Covered iPhone as intended for such Covered iPhone. ADH coverage does not
include (a) protection against normal wear and tear, theft, misplacement, reckless, abusive, willful or
intentional conduct associated with handling and use of the Covered iPhone, (b) protection against any
other act or result not covered by the Plan, as described in Section 4.2 below, or (c) any resultant
damage to the Covered iPhone that arises from one or more conditions described in Section 3.2(a) or (b).
You will pay a $49 (U.S.) dollar service fee plus applicable tax for each ADH claim, and may be asked
to provide an explanation of where and when the accident occurred with a detailed description of the
actual event. A claim will be denied if you fail to pay the service fee or fail to provide information relating
to the accident when asked.
3.3 Technical Support
During the Plan Term, Apple will provide you with access to telephone and web-based technical support
resources. Your complimentary technical support ends ninety (90) days after the Covered iPhone’s date
of original purchase. Technical support may include assistance with installation, launch, configuration,
troubleshooting, and recovery (except for data recovery), including storing, retrieving, and managing
files; interpreting system error messages; and determining when hardware service is required or ADH
coverage may be applicable. Apple will provide support for the then-current version of the supported
software, and the prior Major Release. For purposes of this section, the term "Major Release" means a
significant version of software that is commercially released by Apple in a release number format such as
"1.0" or "2.0" and which is not in beta or pre-release form. The scope of technical support which will be
provided to you will vary based on your Plan.
3.4 Scope of Technical Support
Under the Plan, Apple will provide technical support for the Covered iPhone, operating system (“iOS”)
and software applications that are pre-installed with the Covered iPhone (both referred to as "Consumer
Software") and connectivity issues between the Covered iPhone and a Supported Computer. For
purposes of this section, the term “Supported Computer” means a computer that meets the Covered
iPhone’s connectivity specifications and runs an operating system that is supported by the Covered
iPhone.
4. What is not Covered?
4.1 Hardware Service and ADH Coverage Area. Apple may restrict hardware service and ADH coverage
to the Covered iPhone’s original Country of Purchase.
4.2 Hardware Coverage and ADH Coverage.
(i) The Plan does not apply to installation, removal or disposal of the Covered iPhone, or provision of
equipment while the Covered iPhone is being serviced.
(ii) The Plan does not apply to damage caused by (a) a product that is not the Covered iPhone, (b)
abuse, misuse, fire, earthquake or other external causes except as described in section 3.2 above, (c)
operating the Covered iPhone outside the permitted or intended uses described by the
manufacturer, or (d) service (including upgrades and expansions) if such was performed by anyone
who is not a representative of Apple or an Apple Authorized Service Provider (“AASP”).
(iii) The Plan does not apply to an iPhone with a serial number that has been altered, defaced or
removed, or has been modified to alter its functionality or capability without the written permission
of the manufacturer.
(iv) The Plan does not apply to a Covered iPhone that has been lost or stolen. This Plan only covers a
Covered iPhone that is returned to Apple in its entirety.
(v) The Plan does not apply to cosmetic damage to the Covered iPhone, including but not limited to
scratches and dents, that do not otherwise affect the functionality of the Covered iPhone.
(vi) The Plan does not apply to preventative maintenance on the Covered iPhone;
(vii) The Plan does not apply to defects caused by normal wear and tear or which is otherwise due to
normal aging of the product.
(viii) The Plan does not apply to a pre-existing condition on any Covered iPhone if you purchased
the Plan after you purchased the Covered iPhone.
Important: Do not open the Covered iPhone. Opening the Covered iPhone may cause damage
that is not covered by this Plan. Only Apple or an authorized service provider should perform
service on the Covered iPhone.
4.3 Technical Support. The Plan does not include Technical Support in respect to:
(i) Your use of the iOS and Consumer Software as server-based applications;
(ii) Issues that could be resolved by upgrading software to the then current version;
(iii) Third-party products or their effects on or interactions with the Covered iPhone, the iOS or Consumer
Software;
(iv) Your use of a computer or operating system that is not related to Consumer Software or to
connectivity issues with the Covered iPhone;
(v) Apple software other than the iOS or Consumer Software, as covered under the Plan;
(vi) iOS software or any Apple-branded software designated as “beta”, “prerelease,” or “preview” or
similarly labeled software; or
(vii) Damage to, or loss of any software or data that was residing or recorded on the Covered iPhone.
The Plan does not cover the recovery or reinstallation of software programs and user data.
5. How to Obtain Service and Support?
You may obtain hardware services, which include those relating to ADH coverage, and technical support.
To obtain such services or support, you can access the Apple website
(www.apple.com/support/country/) or call the telephone number listed below. If you call, you will need
to give the Apple technical support representative who answers your call the Plan Agreement Number
or Covered iPhone serial number for your iPhone before you can receive assistance. You need to keep
your Plan Confirmation document and the original sales receipt for your Covered iPhone and your Plan,
as it will be required if there is any question as to your Covered iPhone’s eligibility for coverage.
6. Service Options.
6.1 Apple will provide hardware services to you through one or more of these options:
(i) Carry-in service. Carry-in service is available for most Covered iPhone products. Return the Covered
iPhone to an Apple-owned retail store location or to an AASP that offers carry-in service. Service will be
performed for you at the store, or the store may send the Covered iPhone to an Apple repair service
(“ARS”) site to be repaired. Once you are notified that service is complete, you will promptly retrieve the
Covered iPhone.
(ii) Mail-in service. Direct mail-in service is available for most Covered iPhone products. If Apple
determines that your Covered iPhone is eligible for mail-in service, Apple will send you prepaid way bills
(and if you no longer have the original packaging, packaging material) and you will ship the Covered
iPhone to an ARS site in accordance with Apple’s instructions. Once service is complete, the ARS site will
return the Covered iPhone to you. Apple will pay for shipping to and from your location if you follow all
instructions.
(iii) Express replacement or do-it-yourself (“DIY”) parts service. Express replacement is available for
certain Covered iPhone products. DIY parts service is available for many Covered iPhone parts or
accessories, and this will allow you to service your own Covered iPhone. If express replacement or DIY
parts service is available in the circumstances, the following process will apply.
(a) Service where Apple requires return of the replaced Covered iPhone or part. Apple may require a
credit card authorization to serve as security for the retail price of the replacement Covered iPhone or
part and applicable shipping costs. If you are not able to provide credit card authorization, service may
not be available to you and Apple will offer an alternative arrangement for service. Apple will ship a
replacement iPhone or part to you with installation instructions, if such are applicable, and any
requirements for the return of the replaced Covered iPhone or part. If you follow the instructions, Apple
will cancel the credit card authorization, so you will not be charged for the Covered iPhone or part and
shipping to and from your location. If you fail to return the replaced Covered iPhone or part as
instructed or return a replaced Covered iPhone or part that is ineligible for service, Apple will charge the
credit card for the authorized amount.
(b) Service where Apple does not require return of the replaced product or part. Apple will ship you free
of charge a replacement product or part accompanied by instructions on installation, if applicable, and
any requirements for the disposal of the replaced product or part.
(c) Apple is not responsible for any labor costs you incur in respect to express replacement or DIY parts
service. Should you require further assistance, you should contact Apple at the telephone number listed
below.
6.2 Apple reserves the right to change the method by which Apple may provide repair or replacement
service to you, and your Covered iPhone’s eligibility to receive a particular method of service. Service will
be limited to the options available in the country where you request service. Service options, parts
availability and response times may vary according to country. You may be responsible for shipping and
handling charges if the Covered iPhone cannot be serviced in the country it is in. If you seek service in a
country that is not the country of purchase, you will comply with all applicable import and export laws
and regulations and be responsible for all custom duties, V.A.T. and other associated taxes and charges.
For international service, Apple may repair or exchange products and parts with comparable products
and parts that comply with local standards.
7. Your Responsibilities
To receive service or support under the Plan, you agree to comply with each of the terms listed below.
(i) You will provide your Plan Agreement Number and a copy of your Plan’s original proof of purchase, if
requested.
(ii) You will provide information about the symptoms and causes of the issues with the Covered iPhone.
(iii) You will respond to requests for information, including but not limited to the Covered iPhone serial
number, model, version of the operating system and software installed, any peripherals devices
connected or installed on the Covered iPhone, any error messages displayed, the actions which were
taken before the Covered iPhone experienced the issue and the steps taken to resolve the issue.
(iv) You will follow instructions Apple gives you, including but not limited to refraining from sending
Apple products and accessories that are not subject to repair or replacement service and packing the
Covered iPhone in accordance with shipping instructions.
(v) You will update software to currently published releases prior to seeking service.
(vi) You will make sure to backup software and data residing on the Covered iPhone. DURING
HARDWARE SERVICE, APPLE WILL DELETE THE CONTENTS OF THE COVERED iPHONE AND REFORMAT THE
STORAGE MEDIA. Apple will return your Covered iPhone or provide a replacement as the Covered
iPhone was originally configured, subject to applicable updates. Apple may install iOS updates as part of
hardware service that will prevent the Covered iPhone from reverting to an earlier version of the iOS.
Third party applications installed on the Covered iPhone may not be compatible or work with the iPhone
as a result of the iOS update. You will be responsible for reinstalling all other software programs, data
and passwords.
8. Limitation of Liability
TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, APPLE AND ITS EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS
WILL UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES BE LIABLE TO YOU OR ANY SUBSEQUENT OWNER OF THE COVERED
iPHONE FOR ANY INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO COSTS OF
RECOVERING, REPROGRAMMING, OR REPRODUCING ANY PROGRAM OR DATA OR THE FAILURE TO
MAINTAIN THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF DATA, ANY LOSS OF BUSINESS, PROFITS, REVENUE OR ANTICIPATED
SAVINGS, RESULTING FROM APPLE’S OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS PLAN. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT
PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE LIMIT OF APPLE AND ITS EMPLOYEES AND AGENT’S LIABILITY TO
YOU AND ANY SUBSEQUENT OWNER ARISING UNDER THE PLAN SHALL NOT EXCEED THE ORIGINAL
PRICE PAID FOR THE PLAN. APPLE SPECIFICALLY DOES NOT WARRANT THAT (i) IT WILL BE ABLE TO
REPAIR OR REPLACE COVERED iPHONE WITHOUT RISK TO OR LOSS OF PROGRAMS OR DATA, (ii) IT WILL
MAINTAIN THE CONFIDENTIALITY OF DATA, OR (iii) THAT THE OPERATION OF THE PRODUCT WILL BE
UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE.
FOR CONSUMERS IN JURISDICTIONS WHO HAVE THE BENEFIT OF CONSUMER PROTECTION LAWS OR
REGULATIONS, THE BENEFITS CONFERRED BY THIS PLAN ARE IN ADDITION TO ALL RIGHTS AND
REMEDIES PROVIDED UNDER SUCH LAWS AND REGULATIONS. TO THE EXTENT THAT LIABILITY UNDER
SUCH LAWS AND REGULATIONS MAY BE LIMITED, APPLE’S LIABILITY IS LIMITED, AT ITS SOLE OPTION, TO
REPLACE OR REPAIR OF THE COVERED iPHONE OR SUPPLY OF THE SERVICE. SOME STATES OR
PROVINCES DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, SO SOME OR ALL OF THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.
9. Cancellation
You may cancel this Plan at any time for any reason. If you decide to cancel this Plan, you may call Apple
at the telephone number below to do so, or you may send or fax written notice with your Plan
Agreement Number to AppleCare Administration, P.O. Box 149125, Austin, TX 78714-9125, U.S. (fax
number 916-405-3973). You must send a copy of the Plan’s original proof of purchase with your notice.
Unless local law provides otherwise, if you cancel within thirty (30) days of your Plan’s purchase, or
receipt of this Plan, whichever occurs later, you will receive a full refund less the value of any service
provided under the Plan. If you cancel more than thirty (30) days after your receipt of this Plan, you will
receive a pro rata refund of the original purchase price, based on the percentage of unexpired Plan Term
from the Plan’s date of purchase, less (a) a cancellation fee of twenty-five ($25) dollars or ten percent
(10%) of the pro-rata amount, whichever is less, and (b) the value of any service provided to you under
the Plan. Unless applicable local law provides otherwise, Apple may cancel this Plan for fraud or material
misrepresentation. Unless applicable local law provides otherwise, Apple may also cancel this Plan if
service parts for the Covered iPhone are not available, upon thirty (30) days prior written notice. If Apple
cancels this Plan for the unavailability of service parts, you will receive a pro-rata refund for the Plan’s
unexpired term.
10. Transfer of Plan
Subject to the restrictions set forth below, you may make a one-time permanent transfer of all of your
rights under the Plan to another party, provided that: (a) the transfer includes the original proof of
purchase, the Plan's Confirmation and all of the Plan's printed materials and these Terms and Conditions;
(b) you notify Apple of the transfer by sending, faxing or e-mailing notice of transfer to Apple Inc., ATTN:
Agreement Administration, MS: 217-AC, 2511 Laguna Blvd, Elk Grove, CA 95758, U.S., fax number 916-
405-3655 or agmts_transfer@apple.com, respectively, and (c) the party receiving the Plan accepts the
terms and conditions of the Plan. When notifying Apple of the transfer of the Plan, you must provide the
Plan Agreement Number, the serial number of the Covered iPhone being transferred, and the name,
address, telephone number and email address of the new owner.
11. General Terms
(i) Apple may subcontract or assign performance of its obligations to third parties but shall not be
relieved of its obligations to you in doing so.
(ii) Apple is not responsible for any failures or delays in performing under the Plan that are due to events
outside Apple’s reasonable control.
(iii) You are not required to perform preventative maintenance on the Covered iPhone to receive service
under the Plan.
(iv) This Plan is offered and valid only in the fifty states of the United States of America and the District of
Columbia and all provinces and territories of Canada. This Plan is not offered to persons who have not
reached the age of majority. This Plan may not be available in all states of the United Sates and in all
provinces and territories of Canada, and is not available where prohibited by law.
(v) In carrying out its obligations Apple may, at its discretion and solely for the purposes of monitoring
the quality of Apple’s response, record part or all of the calls between you and Apple.
(vi) You agree that any information or data disclosed to Apple under this Plan is not confidential or
proprietary to you. Furthermore, you agree that Apple may collect and process data on your behalf
when it provides service. This may include transferring your data to affiliated companies or service
providers in accordance with the Apple Customer Privacy Policy.
(vii) Apple has security measures, which should protect your data against unauthorized access or
disclosure as well as unlawful destruction. You will be responsible for the instructions you give to Apple
regarding the processing of data, and Apple will seek to comply with those instructions as reasonably
necessary for the performance of the service and support obligations under the Plan. If you do not agree
with the above or if you have questions regarding how your data may be impacted by being processed
in this way, contact Apple at the telephone numbers provided.
(viii) Apple will protect your information in accordance with Apple Customer Privacy Policy available
at www.apple.com/legal/warranty/privacy/. If you wish to have access to the information that Apple
holds concerning you or if you want to make changes, access URL www.apple.com/contact/myinfo
to update your personal contact preferences or you may contact Apple at URL
www.apple.com/privacy/contact.
(ix) The terms of the Plan, including the original sales receipt of the Plan and the Plan Confirmation, shall
prevail over any conflicting, additional, or other terms of any purchase order or other document, and
constitute your and Apple’s entire understanding with respect to the Plan.
(x) Apple is not obligated to renew this Plan. If Apple does offer to renew this Plan, it will determine the
price and terms.
(xi) There is no informal dispute settlement process available under this Plan.
(xii) For Plans sold in the United States, “Apple” is AppleCare Service Company, Inc., an Arizona
corporation with its registered office at c/o CT Corporation System, 2394 East Camelback Road, Phoenix,
Arizona 85016, doing business in the state of Texas as Apple CSC, Inc., and the obligations of such Plans
are backed by the full faith and credit of the provider, AppleCare Service Company, Inc. For Plans sold in
Canada, “Apple” is Apple Canada Inc., with offices at 7495 Birchmount Road, Markham, Ontario, L3R 5G2,
Canada. Apple Canada Inc. is the legal and financial obligor for Plans sold in Canada.
(xiii) The Administrator is Apple Inc. (the “Administrator” TDLR Lic. #300), a California corporation with its
registered office at 1 Infinite Loop, Cupertino, California 95014. The Administrator is responsible for the
collection and transfer to AppleCare Service Company, Inc. of the purchase price for the Plan and for the
administration of claims under the Plan.
(xiv) Except where prohibited by law, the laws of the State of California govern Plans purchased in the
United States. Except where prohibited by law, the laws of the province of Ontario govern Plans
purchased in Canada. If the laws of any jurisdiction where this Plan is purchased are inconsistent with
these terms, including the jurisdictions of Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Nevada, Oregon, Vermont,
Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming, the laws of that jurisdiction will control.
(xv) Support services under this Plan may be available in English and French only.
12. Country, Province and State Variations
One or more of the terms that appear below may apply to the Plan. The terms below may vary from one
or more of the terms that appear above this section. The following country, province or state variations
will control if inconsistent with any other provisions of this Plan:
12.1 Canada
In Canada, the service fee for each ADH Claim as described in section 3.2 is forty-nine (CDN$49)
Canadian dollars plus applicable tax, and the cancellation fee described in section 9 is twenty-five
(CDN$25) Canadian dollars or ten percent (10%) of the pro-rata amount, whichever is less.
Quebec Residents
The laws of the Province of Quebec will govern this Plan and any disputes arising under it. The section
“Limitation of Liability” is not applicable to residents of Quebec.
12.2 United States
Alabama, California, Hawaii, Maryland, Minnesota, Missouri, New Mexico, Nevada, New York, South
Carolina, Texas, Washington and Wyoming Residents. If you purchased the Plan in one of these states,
this term applies to the Plan.
If you cancel this Plan pursuant to these terms and conditions, and we fail to refund the purchase price
to you within thirty (30) days for California, New York, Missouri and Washington residents, within fortyfive
(45) days for Alabama, Hawaii, Maryland, Minnesota, Nevada, South Carolina, Texas and Wyoming
residents, and within sixty (60) days for New Mexico residents, we are required to pay you a penalty of
10% per month for the unpaid amount due and owing to you. The right to cancel and receive this
penalty payment only applies to the original owner of the Agreement and may not be transferred or
assigned. The obligations of the provider under this service contract are backed by the full faith and
credit of the provider, AppleCare Service Company, Inc.
California Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
If you cancel this Plan within thirty (30) days of your Plan receipt, you will receive a full refund less the
value of any service provided under the Plan.
Colorado Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
Notice: This Plan is subject to the Colorado Consumer Protection Act or the Unfair Practices Act, Articles
1 and 2 of Title 6, CRS.
Connecticut Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
The expiration date of the Plan will automatically be extended by the period that the Covered iPhone is
in Apple’s custody while it is being serviced. Resolution of Disputes: Disputes may be resolved by
arbitration. Unresolved disputes or complaints may be mailed, with a copy of this Plan, to State of
Connecticut, Insurance Dept., P.O. Box 816, Hartford, CT 06142-0846, Attn: Consumer Affairs.
Florida Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
The laws of the State of Florida will govern this Plan and any dispute arising under it. The rate which is
charged for this Plan is not subject to regulation by the Florida Office of Insurance Regulation.
Michigan Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
If performance of the service contract is interrupted because of a strike or work stoppage at the
company's place of business, the effective period of the service contract shall be extended for the period
of the strike or work stoppage.
Nevada Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
Cancellations: No Plan that has been in effect for at least 70 days may be canceled by the provider
before the expiration of the agreed term or one year after the effective date of the Plan, whichever
occurs first, except on the following grounds:
a. Failure by the holder to pay an amount due;
b. Conviction of the holder of a crime which results in an increase in the service required;
c. Discovery of fraud or material misrepresentation by the holder in obtaining the Plan, or in presenting a
claim for service thereunder;
d. Discovery of an act or omission by the holder, or a violation by the holder of any condition of the Plan,
which occurred after the effective date of the Plan and which substantially and materially increases the
service required under the Plan;
e. A material change in the nature or extent of the required service or repair which occurs after the
effective date of the Plan and which causes the required service or repair to be substantially and
materially increased beyond that contemplated at the time that the Plan was issued or sold.
Grounds for cancellation; date cancellation effective. No cancellation of a service contract may become
effective until at least 15 days after the notice of cancellation is mailed to the holder.
Cancellation of contract; Refund of purchase price; cancellation fee.
(i) If Apple cancels this Plan, Apple shall refund to Nevada consumers the portion of the purchase price
that is unearned. Apple may deduct any outstanding balance on your account from the amount of the
purchase price that is unearned when calculating the amount of the refund. If Apple cancels a contract
pursuant to NRS 690C.270, it may not impose a cancellation fee.
(ii) Except as otherwise provided in this section, a Nevada resident who is the original purchaser of this
Plan, who submits to Apple a request in writing to cancel the Plan in accordance with the terms of the
Plan, shall receive a refund of the portion of the Plan’s purchase price that is unearned and Apple will
not deduct the value of any service provided.
(iii) If you request the cancellation of this Plan after the first thirty (30) days of the Plan term, Apple may
impose the cancellation fee described in the Plan, but will not deduct the value of any service provided.
(iv) When Apple calculates the amount of a refund pursuant to subsection (ii), it may deduct from the
portion of the purchase price that is unearned: (a) any outstanding balance on the account; and (b) any
cancellation fee imposed pursuant to this Plan. AppleCare Service Company, Inc. backs this Plan for
Nevada residents by its full faith and credit.
No prior approval for services or goods covered under the Plan is necessary.
Tax is not applicable in the State of Nevada on the $49 service fee for ADH claims.
New Hampshire Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
In the event you do not receive satisfaction under this contract, you may contact the New Hampshire
insurance department, by mail at State of New Hampshire Insurance Department, 21 South Fruit Street,
Suite 14, Concord NH 03301, or by telephone, via Consumer Assistance, at 800-852-3416.
New Mexico Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
Cancellations: No Plan that has been in effect for at least 70 days may be canceled by the provider
before the expiration of the agreed term or one year after the effective date of the Plan, whichever
occurs first, except on the following grounds:
a. Failure by the holder to pay an amount due;
b. Conviction of the holder of a crime which results in an increase in the service required;
c. Discovery of fraud or material misrepresentation by the holder in obtaining the Plan, or in presenting a
claim for service thereunder;
d. Discovery of an act or omission by the holder, or a violation by the holder of any condition of the Plan,
which occurred after the effective date of the Plan and which substantially and materially increases the
service required under the Plan;
e. A material change in the nature or extent of the required service or repair which occurs after the
effective date of the Plan and which causes the required service or repair to be substantially and
materially increased beyond that contemplated at the time that the Plan was issued or sold.
North Carolina Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
The purchase of this Plan is not required either to purchase or to obtain financing for an iPhone. Apple
Inc. will not cancel this plan EXCEPT for failure to pay the purchase price for the Plan.
Ohio Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
Although this service contract is not an insurance policy, the obligations for claims hereunder for Plans
sold in Ohio are insured by Illinois National Insurance Co., with an address of 180 Maiden Lane 25th
Floor, New York, NY 10038 (Phone Number: 1-800-250-3819). With any correspondence, please provide
your phone number and case number, if applicable. You are entitled to make a direct claim against the
insurance company if Apple fails to provide service pursuant to a claim sixty (60) days after Apple’s
receipt of your claim.
Oregon Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
In the event you do not receive satisfaction under this contract, you may contact the Oregon
Department of Consumer and Business Services by mail at the Department of Consumer and Business
Services, Oregon Insurance Division, 350 Winter Street NE, Salem, OR 97301; or by telephone via
Consumer Advocacy, at 888-877-4894.
South Carolina Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
You may address any unresolved complaints or Plan regulation questions to the South Carolina
Department of Insurance, P.O. Box 100105, Columbia, South Carolina 29202-3105, Tel: 1-800-768-3467.
Tennessee Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
The Plan Term of this Plan shall be extended as follows: (1) the number of days you are deprived of the
use of the product because the product is in repair; plus two (2) additional work days.
Texas Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
The provider may cancel this Plan with no prior notice for non-payment, misrepresentation or a
substantial breach of a duty by the holder relating to the Covered iPhone or its use. You may address
any unresolved complaints or contract regulation question to the TX Dept. of Licensing and Regulation,
P.O. Box 12157, Austin, TX 78711, U.S.
The Administrator in Texas is Apple Inc., TDLR Lic. #300.
Wisconsin Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
THIS WARRANTY IS SUBJECT TO LIMITED REGULATION BY THE OFFICE OF THE COMMISSIONER OF
INSURANCE.
If you cancel this Plan within thirty (30) days of your Plan’s purchase, or receipt of these Terms and
Conditions, whichever occurs later, you will receive a full refund. If you cancel this Plan more than thirty
(30) days after your receipt of the Plan, you will receive a pro-rata refund of the original purchase price,
based on the percentage of the unexpired Plan Term, less a cancellation fee of twenty-five ($25 USD)
dollars or ten percent (10%) of the pro-rata amount, whichever is less. No deduction shall be made from
the refund for the cost of any service received. Apple will not cancel this Plan EXCEPT for failure to pay
the purchase price for the Plan. If Apple cancels the Plan, you will be paid a pro-rata refund for the Plan’s
unexpired term.
Wyoming Residents. If you purchased the Plan in this state, this term applies to the Plan.
If Apple cancels this Plan, Apple will mail to you written notice of the cancellation at your last known
address contained in Apple’s records. Apple will mail this written notice to you no less than ten (10)
days prior to the date when the cancellation will take effect. This written notice to you will contain the
date when the cancellation will take effect and the reasons for the cancellation. Apple is not obligated to
provide prior notice if cancellation is due to nonpayment of the Plan, a material misrepresentation by
you to Apple, a substantial breach of your duties under the Plan or a substantial breach of your duties
relating to the Covered iPhone or its use.
Disputes that arise under this Plan may be settled in accordance with the Wyoming Arbitration Act.
Telephone Numbers
United States - 800-APL-CARE (800-275-2273)
7:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. central time*
Seven days a week
Canada – 800-263-3394
8:00 A.M. to 8:00 P.M. central time*
Seven days a week
* Telephone numbers and hours of operation may vary and are subject to change. You can find
the most up-to-date local and international contact information at
www.apple.com/contact/phone_contacts.html. Toll-free numbers are not available in all
countries.
041612 AppleCare+ for iPhone US and Canada English v1.3